RHIDP-5570 - Document that the Dynamic Plugin cache PVC is disabled by default (#919)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/dynamic-plugins/con-dynamic-plugins-cache.adoc

== Enabling the dynamic plugins cache
To enable the dynamic plugins cache in {product-very-short}, the plugins directory `dynamic-plugins-root` must be a persistent volume. 

> === Creating a PVC for Dynamic Plugins Cache using the Operator

Author: Thanks @linfraze - I've adopted your suggestions regarding making the content more procedural. 

This module originally consisted of just some examples, so it was created as a concept module. With this update the SMEs added some steps, so it became more procedural although maybe not complete procedures.

However, I think the content does now present better as stepped procedures. I will create a Jira to properly modularize this content in the future.

== Enabling the dynamic plugins cache
To enable the dynamic plugins cache in {product-very-short}, the plugins directory `dynamic-plugins-root` must be a persistent volume. 

> === Creating a PVC for the dynamic plugin cache by using the Operator

Reviewer: Consider modularization. Each procedure should go in a separate file. You can use subheadings in concept or reference modules, but not in procedure modules. See https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#con-creating-procedure-modules_writing-mod-docs

For operator-based installations, you must manually create the persistent volume claim (PVC) by replacing the default `dynamic-plugins-root` volume with a PVC named `dynamic-plugins-root`. 

.Procedure 

> . Create the persistent volume definition and save it to a file, for example `pvc.yaml`. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create the persistent volume definition and save it to a file, such as `pvc.yaml`. For example:
```
seeing "for example" twice in rapid succession made me think it was a typo

                  claimName: dynamic-plugins-root
----

[NOTE]

> To avoid adding a new volume, you must use the `$patch: replace` directive.

Reviewer 3: I think this note makes sense as is, as the goal is to purposely replace the existing `dynamic-plugins-root` volume. There is already documentation about adding/replacing volumes using `$patch` here: https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_developer_hub/1.4/html/configuring/configuring-the-deployment#configuring-the-deployment

=== Creating a PVC for Dynamic Plugins Cache using the Helm Chart
For Helm Chart installations, if you require the dynamic plugin cache to persist across pod restarts, you must create a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) and configure the Helm Chart to use it.

.Example creating the persistent volume definition
[source,yaml]
----
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: dynamic-plugins-root
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 5Gi

----

[NOTE]
====
This example uses `ReadWriteOnce` as the access mode which prevents multiple replicas from sharing the PVC across different nodes. 

To run multiple replicas on different nodes, depending on your storage driver, you must use an access mode such as `ReadWriteMany`.
====

To apply this PVC to your cluster, run the following command:
[source,terminal]
----

> oc apply -f pvc.yaml

Reviewer 3: Similar point here. To be consistent, I think this should also be mentioned in the Operator section (or removed from here).

----

.Example configuring Helm to use the PVC
[source,yaml]
----
extraVolumes:
  - name: dynamic-plugins-root
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: dynamic-plugins-root
  - name: dynamic-plugins
    configMap:
      defaultMode: 420
      name: '{{ printf "%s-dynamic-plugins" .Release.Name }}'
      optional: true
  - name: dynamic-plugins-npmrc
    secret:
      defaultMode: 420
      optional: true
      secretName: '{{ printf "%s-dynamic-plugins-npmrc" .Release.Name }}'
  - name: dynamic-plugins-registry-auth
    secret:
      defaultMode: 416
      optional: true
      secretName: '{{ printf "%s-dynamic-plugins-registry-auth" .Release.Name }}'
  - name: npmcacache
    emptyDir: {}
  - name: temp
    emptyDir: {}=

> ----

Reviewer 3: I think it is also worth mentioning in a note that the user must repeat all the other extra volumes from the default chart in order to edit the `dynamic-plugins-root` one: https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-chart/blob/main/charts/backstage/values.yaml#L145-L181

To deploy the Helm Chart, run the following command:
[source,terminal]
----

> helm upgrade --install rhdh-backstage charts/backstage --namespace rhdh -f values.yaml

Reviewer 3: `charts/backstage` won't work here since it refers to a local chart folder, not the official chart repo. I think we should remove this step and command, similar to the Operator section, where we are not documenting how to reconfigure the CR.

                persistentVolumeClaim:
                  claimName: dynamic-plugins-root
----
+
[NOTE]
To avoid adding a new volume, you must use the `$patch: replace` directive.

=== Creating a PVC for the dynamic plugin cache using the Helm Chart
For Helm Chart installations, if you require the dynamic plugin cache to persist across pod restarts, you must create a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) and configure the Helm Chart to use it.

.Procedure 
. Create the persistent volume definition. For example: 
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: dynamic-plugins-root
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 5Gi
----
+
[NOTE]
====
This example uses `ReadWriteOnce` as the access mode which prevents multiple replicas from sharing the PVC across different nodes. 

To run multiple replicas on different nodes, depending on your storage driver, you must use an access mode such as `ReadWriteMany`.
====

. To apply this PVC to your cluster, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
oc apply -f pvc.yaml
----
. Configure the Helm chart to use the PVC. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> extraVolumes:

Reviewer 3: Just a quick note.. The exact field path in the values files should actually be `upstream.backstage.extraVolumes`. Would it make sense to change this field (and the indentation) to clarify this? Like so:

```
+
[source,yaml]
----
upstream:
  backstage:
    extraVolumes:
      ...
----
+
```

Otherwise, I think it looks like `extraVolumes` is a top-level field. WDYT?

Author: Thank you @rm3l - I've applied this suggestion.

                  claimName: dynamic-plugins-root
----

[NOTE]
To avoid adding a new volume, you must use the `$patch: replace` directive.

> === Creating a PVC for Dynamic Plugins Cache using the Helm Chart

Author: Yes this has been updated.

  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 5Gi

----

[NOTE]
====
This example uses `ReadWriteOnce` as the access mode which prevents multiple replicas from sharing the PVC across different nodes. 

To run multiple replicas on different nodes, depending on your storage driver, you must use an access mode such as `ReadWriteMany`.
====

To apply this PVC to your cluster, run the following command:
[source,terminal]
----
oc apply -f pvc.yaml
----

.Example configuring Helm to use the PVC
[source,yaml]
----
extraVolumes:
  - name: dynamic-plugins-root
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: dynamic-plugins-root
  - name: dynamic-plugins
    configMap:
      defaultMode: 420
      name: '{{ printf "%s-dynamic-plugins" .Release.Name }}'
      optional: true
  - name: dynamic-plugins-npmrc
    secret:
      defaultMode: 420
      optional: true
      secretName: '{{ printf "%s-dynamic-plugins-npmrc" .Release.Name }}'
  - name: dynamic-plugins-registry-auth
    secret:
      defaultMode: 416
      optional: true
      secretName: '{{ printf "%s-dynamic-plugins-registry-auth" .Release.Name }}'
  - name: npmcacache
    emptyDir: {}
  - name: temp
    emptyDir: {}
----

[NOTE]
====

> When you configure the Helm chart to use the PVC, you must also include the link:https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-chart/blob/main/charts/backstage/values.yaml#L145-L181[`extraVolumes`] defined in the default Helm chart.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you configure the Helm chart to use the PVC, you must also include the link:https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-chart/blob/release-{product-version}/charts/backstage/values.yaml#L145-L181[`extraVolumes`] defined in the default Helm chart.
```
Just realized that it would be better if the link could point to the right release branch.
